---
title: "P1.1 Extra Information about OpenGL"
description: "Extra information for beginners"
date: "2024-01-01"
category: "OpenGL"
image: "/images/opengl.jpg"

---


## I still don't know what (OpenGL, GLEW, GLFW) are..

**I've been searching, here is what i found.**

so, OpenGL is not a library. 
It is a specification.
Just a few (quite a few, actually) pages of text!
You can see it here https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL/specs/gl/glspec44.core.pdf .

Then we can conclude that you can’t “install” OpenGL. But, you might ask, **where does the code exist?**

Well, **OpenGL** standard is already implemented inside of the your **OS GPU** driver, by manufacturers, without any kind of agreements on the actual implementation, and, so, different drivers may achieve the same functionality in a different ways. and we use **opengl32.lib** to communicate with this driver.

to start actually displaying something in the screen, you need to have access to 2 things.

- **the concrete OpenGL implementation functionality.**
- **Setup the windowing system & OpenGL context.**

Both of these things require some interaction with the operating system: In order to load OpenGL implementation function pointers, and, also, in order to create a window.

**So, we use a library to do that for us, here comes GLEW**

GLEW (stands for OpenGL Extension Wrangler Library) is a cross-platform C/C++ library that helps in querying and loading OpenGL extensions.

OpenGL extensions are a means for OpenGL implementations to provide new or expanded functionality that the core of OpenGL does not provide

and GLFW for Window Handling.